After you create your unstructured content,
I want you to think like a record or music producers,
how they put the songs in order with an amazing
song at the beginning that will be played
on the radio a lot, or on the internet,
I used to listen the radio, I'm old.
And then at the end they usually put a very
inspiring or great song, okay.
And a great album, right, record, or piece of music,
has incredible themes without too much complexity
in the song arrangement.
We're going to talk about this one in a second.
You can always cut extra material
that isn't relevant to your speech.
Which is what we did in the previous exercise
when we crossed out content or line items.
Now, always, always, always remember the so what test.
Is everything we are showing or discussing
relevant to our topic or not?
And as a side note, this is cool and relevant to
this album which, of course, is Abbey Road.
Which was a content and delivery
masterpiece of a presentation.
Right, it's pretty cool.
Actually I want to talk about this for a second
because they, this was just an incredible album
and it's relevant, too.
Before we get there I want to show you something.
What is that image in the middle of the record, there?
Right, that's, of course, an apple, right.
And Steve Jobs named his company, some people believe,
because of this.
Right, he was so inspired by the brilliance of
The Beatles, right, because of their focus
on creating artistic masterpieces like this.
This is not just music, right, this is a work of art.
And there's actually a rumor when this album came
out that Paul McCartney died, right, he passed away,
and he was replaced with a look alike.
And you can actually see this in the album cover.
That John Lennon here is dressed in white,
which means he's a priest, right,
Ringo, the drummer, is the pallbearer, right,
pallbearer, which means that he carries the coffin.
Paul is in bare feet, right, because he passed away
and this is fictitious, of course, right,
and he's actually smoking so that kind of
indicates he, it's not a good thing, you can die from that.
And then here we have George Harrison who is the
grave digger, right, so they paid a lot of attention
to detail in this, it's a real masterpiece.
And all this passed the so what test.
It's very relevant to the theme of Paul having passed away.
Right, fictitiously, again.
One more thing I want to show you, right.
I don't know if you can see that there, try to zoom in.
Right there, on that license plate, right, the license
plate right here of the Beetle, Volkswagen Beetle,
clever, it says 28IF, you see that?
That means that if Paul McCartney was still alive, right,
again it's just pretend, if he was still alive,
he would be 28 years old.
Isn't that neat.
It was really, really cool and this was very
controversial at the time because people thought
that Paul McCartney had passed away.
There's a lot of controversy and controversy
usually leads to increased media attention
which leads to increased sales.
Isn't that brilliant?
The Beatles back then, they knew what they were doing.
It was a brilliant PR event, right.
Kind of like Steve Jobs, whenever he would present
at Apple, right, it was a brilliant PR event.
It was a masterpiece of a presentation
that Mr. Jobs gave, right.
It's amazing how these people introduced him
quite a bit.
The attention to detail to make sure that
everything is relevant and a masterpiece
like your presentation is, is crucial and your speech
is going to be an absolute masterpiece.
Including the images you're going to use.
And the optional music and videos which we will
cover in act four scene two.
So, what, Chris?
Well, I want you to be as detailed and creative
with your masterpiece of a presentation
as George Martin was.
Course he was the producer of The Beatles.
And he put this music on this album in order, in order.
He was brilliant, he was brilliant, right.
And you gotta wear a lot of hats when you're
creating your masterpiece of a speech or presentation.
So, I want you think like, I want you to think
like the greatest producers, the greatest content
writers, the greatest artists, etc. when you make
your production, okay.
Remember we want it to be an experience,
right, not just a boring presentation.
And make sure that the order of the topics
that you discuss in your presentation flows well.
Actually, let's talk about this, might be interesting.
How did Beatles producer, George Martin,
order the songs on Abbey Road here.
And in the old days, there was two songs,
they were clever and used both sides, right,
to an album, there's side one and side two, right.
And when you bought singles or just one song
on an album, the great song would be on side A
and leftover stuff would be on side B, B side, right.
But George Martin likely put the album's, the song
in the order that he thought would be most popular first.
And so the first song here is actually Come Together,
right, on side A or side one.
And that was played a lot on the radio,
it was a very popular song, it was commercialized.
And the album flows really well because
in the second half or the second side
is probably the most compelling collection
of songs that flow together that's ever been created
in music history in my humble opinion.
Each song flows beautifully.
And it's remarkable, magnificent, medley of
music and the melancholy, emotional feeling
of it sounds like the perfect way to end
their career together.
Why do I say this?
This was basically their last album they did, okay.
Some people say Let It Be was,
but it was actually this one, right.
And the very last song here is a song called The End.
Which is actually, it's a very sad song.
It's near the end of the album, I should say.
And it's the antithesis of coming together,
right, which was at the start of the album.
Right, it's a masterpiece, it's an absolute masterpiece
work of art, kind of like your presentation will be.
And if you get a chance, please listen to the
second half of the album, starting with Here Comes the Sun.
And then Because which George Harrison wrote.
And then it flows nicely into a song eventually
called The Sun King where he speaks Portuguese.
Polythene Pam, She Came in Through the Bathroom Window,
Carry That Weight, and then The End at the end.
It's pretty interesting and again it's almost sad
because it's the end of The Beatles,
it's the end of an era basically.
It marks the end of the '60s.
And at the end of the album,
you just want to stand up and clap as this is
the emotional feel that I want your audience to feel.
Hold on, someone's here at the door.
Who is it?
(inaudible)
This is my son, Matthew, hey Matt, how are you buddy?
Good.
Can you say hi?
Come closer so everyone can see you.
Here you go.
And Matthew actually had, I had writer's block
and Matthew when you can't think of something,
what do you do?
You play around with something, what is it?
It's called a spinner.
A spinner, okay, cool, neat.
And okay good, so when you have writer's block
you can use this, too, right.
It's a spinner, it's, isn't that cool?
This thing can spin for a couple of minutes.
And then you had this one, as well, what is this?
Show this to, say hi to everyone at (inaudible).
Hello, this is called a fidget cube,
when you're bored in class and you have nothing to
do you can just play around, it's like clicking a pen
but there's lots more options.
Cool, very neat, very neat.
That's awesome and I was bored in class a lot.
That's neat, that's great, so, alright great,
well thanks buddy.
Excellent, thanks for showing me.
Can I keep this for a little while?
Yeah.
Alright, I love you, thanks buddy.
You, too.
Thanks.
Alright, cool.
Unscripted.
Cool, thanks buddy, can you close the door?
Thank you.
Okay great, alright, so, anyway, what else
can I tell you about this album.
Oh, on the back cover here, it's pretty neat.
Paul they thought was dead and this kind of
represents a sinister person or whatever it is,
the shadow, so what, Chris, so what.
Anyway, I just want to make sure that your
presentation is an absolute masterpiece.
Now, it's important for me to stress that
The Beatles were in their 20s then
and all the best artists, in my humble opinion,
make their best stuff in their 20s.
So, those of you that are under 30,
please don't ever let your age or lack
of experience intimidate you.
The way you approach problem solving
and creativity is awesome because you haven't
been told how to think yet.
Okay, okay, okay.
Let's get back to The Beatles now and thematics in general.
So, I wanted to also mention, I think I made a mistake
there that this is the grim reaper, right, that's
what they were trying to show.
And the image of, for this Abbey Road presentation
by The Beatles is certainly convincing,
interesting, different, educational, and relevant.
Especially when compared to the less sophisticated,
but still awesome, earlier albums by The Beatles,
before Abbey Road.
And your production pieces or your presentation
will become more sophisticated as you go on.
You know, if I look at earlier stuff by The Beatles,
like this one here, Rubber Soul, which is great.
It's not as sophisticated, right, everything about
it is just less sophisticated, right.
And so, anyway, I think you get the idea.
Now, another great artistic way of making clever
images or memes if you want to tie in your content together
is to go to this website here to make memes.
And again, The Beatles were amazing as they made
every single album different.
They were incredibly unique.
Damn this lecture is fun, I'm having a good time.
I'm not gonna edit it all.
Okay so, enough talk about themes and scenes and memes.
I think you get the idea, just please pay close
attention to dealing with detail
and more than anything just have a lot of
fun doing this, right, creating your masterpiece.
And be different, again, your audience might forget
what you say, but they'll never forget the
way you made them feel.
Thank you.